STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

My interest in computer programming came to fruition during my junior year in high school. Creating a space-shooter game using C++ was a motivating time in my life and prompted me to elect computer science as my major in college. Although I remain equipped with extensive training in the field, technology is evolving at a pace where the expansion of data requires advanced computer systems to handle this input. Hence, there remains a need to efficiently create the systems that are driving our information-based future. Developed countries have leveraged technological innovations in various respects, developing conveniences and a high a standard of living for its citizens. After contemplating my future goals, I have realized the necessity to remain abreast of technological advances, an insight that will allow me to make valuable contributions to future generations. Thus, I am applying to the Master’s program in Computer Science at XXX University to fully comprehend this inherently dynamic field.
 
Completing the rigorous Computer Science program at MSRIT in Bangalore was essential in honing my programming knowledge, benefitting me in many critical ways to move forward. For example, Artificial Intelligence introduced me to the vast world of AI, while also opening my eyes to local search agents, planning and uncertainty, genetic algorithms and the ultimate future of this field.  In addition, Big Data and Data Science taught me about the relationship between big data and related technologies, providing me with an informed technical outlook of analysis techniques using Hadoop and R. Finally, I found Design and Analysis of Algorithms the most logically driven course in the program.  Here, we were instructed on topics that focused on graph traversal, greedy algorithms and dynamic programming and this guidance defined the most efficient methods for solving problems. We facilitated this knowledge through lab classes where we were given the opportunity to implement the techniques learned in class.
 
This comprehensive education was complimented by participation in several projects.  In Artificial Intelligence, I built robotic car, one that presented a dynamic steering algorithm and ensured that the robot could navigate smoothly in an unknown environment and avoid collisions.  I applied an Arduino Uno microcontroller as the main hardware component and an A* algorithm for path finding and traversal. One of my most defining accomplishments was however completing a distribution system to preserve the medical history and conditions of individuals in rural Indian areas. I thus created an android application to input, display, and store patient data. Thereafter, the data was fed to the Cloud and stored as an object in Microsoft Azure Blob Storage. The analysis of the medical records was loaded into a Hadoop Distributed File System and Pig Script extracted the relevant for analysis. A regression model was developed to predict the blood sugar from the collected data, while the regression model was trained using a cubic kernel regression. Using the concept of Convoluted Neural Networks(CNN), I also trained a model to detect anomalies in the patient information records and the ”theanets” python package was used to implement the CNN.
 
After completing the intricate details of each application, the distributed data was aggregated into a single entity and could be accessed by the government to determine health issues that require immediate attention and evaluate mitigation plans. More importantly, the data collected could be easily accessible with the help of mobile devices.  My project idea was selected for the Motorola Scholars award program in 2015-16 and this honor was truly an inspiring time in my life.  To add to this, the Journal of Management and Analytics accepted the study for publication and it will appear in the XXX issue.
 
With the aim of facilitating my academic training, I accepted two internships.  While working at Capgemini, we completed a project that aimed to automatically classify customer complaints on a product into various subcategories. I learned a great deal about Natural Language Processing and was able to extract email contents and perform trimming, along with implementing simple stemming, lemmatization and PoS tagging on python using the NLTK library. Thereafter, I worked at Wells Fargo as an Analyst where I collaborated with a team to gain insights into real time stock data of four companies. I was involved in data preparation and cleaning using Java, after which I was trained on ELK stack. Using logstash, I indexed the dataset into elasticsearch and created visualizations on the same using kibana. This experience not only taught me about new technologies and provided more exposure to Java, but it illustrated the uses of practical applications in a corporate environment. During this time, I witnessed how rapid technology was evolving within the organization, and this encouraged me to further my expertise through advanced studies.
 
Due to my exemplary performance as an intern, I was offered permanent employment with Wells Fargo as an Applications Programmer and Analyst. My responsibilities entail supporting and developing a wholesale service, Image-File-Import, to a LockBox application.  Throughout my tenure, I have become proficient in Java, Oracle SQLdeveloper, risk and problem management and basic shell scripting. In the support role, I have acquired an in-depth insight of the various issues that could occur to a service and the appropriate response to resolve them.  My time here has been well spent and I truly believe that my academic training, coupled with a wide-ranging professional background will serve as a solid foundation to draw upon while completing graduate studies.
 
After carefully examining my skills and abilities, I truly believe that a focus on Computer Science abroad is suitable me. While completing your program, I specifically look forward to enrolling in core courses, such as Data structures programming, Microprocessors, Artificial Intelligence, Operating Systems and Advanced Java Programming. Topics such as these will allow me to develop a solid platform of all the hardware and software nuances, essentially increasing my knowledge substantially beyond that supplied during my undergraduate years. In addition, I will be gaining extensive technical capabilities, as well as being exposed to a culture very different from my own.
 
After achieving my graduate degree, my goal is to secure employment as a XXX to apply the skills gained from your program.  In the longer term, my aim is build on the medical history distribution system, which I believe has the potential to contribute significantly to the medical field. My goal is to provide people with a secure, simple and scalable system that can be used to keep track health conditions. This would offer a simple understanding of medical trends to the general population, information on various medical issues and tactical solutions to control and mitigate these problems. With an education from your esteemed university, I will be able to contribute to our data focused destiny as a leader, one who is clearing the way for others to follow. I truly thank you for your time in considering my application and hope to hear from you in the near future.
